NOTE: This guide will be out of date. Currently, Peashot is work in progress to release the v0.3.
Once that happens, this guide will be re-written

# Contributing

**How it works**: `ferrishot` takes a screenshot of the focused monitor and creates a fullscreen window with background set to the taken screenshot.

Some pointers:

- `ui/` defines components that are part of the app. For example the `welcome_message` shows tips when there is no selection
- `ui/app.rs` holds the `App` struct which contains all information about the program
  - `App::view` renders the app
- `message.rs` holds `Message` enum which defines all events that can happen which mutate the `App`'s state
  - `App::update` responds to a `Message` to mutate itself. This is the **only** place with access to `&mut App`
- `config/options.rs` defines each config option
- `cli.rs` defines the command line interface

100% of the code is documented. To take advantage of that you can use `cargo doc --document-private-items --open`.

## Building

On Windows and MacOS there are no dependencies.

On Linux, you will need these (`apt` package manager names):

- `libgl-dev`
- `libx11-dev`
- `libxcbcommon-dev`

If you use wayland you will also need `libwayland-dev` lib.

For nix users, there is a `flake.nix` which you can use with `nix develop`.

To run:

```sh
cargo run
```

### Documentation Generation

The files in `completions/` are all generated by the following command:

```sh
cargo docgen
```

## Debugging

- Use `F12` (or `ferrishot --debug`) to toggle the debug overlay which contains shows information about recent `Message`s received.
- The `.explain()` method on `Element` provided by the `Explainer` trait will show a red border around an element and all of its children.
- These are the additional CLI options available for development:

  ```
  Debug:
    --log-level <LEVEL>
            Choose a minimum level at which to log. [error, warn, info, debug, trace, off]

            [default: error]

    --log-stderr
            Log to standard error instead of file

    --log-file <FILE>
            Path to the log file

            [default: /home/e/.cache/ferrishot.log]

    --log-filter <FILTER>
            Filter for specific Rust module or crate, instead of showing logs from all crates

    --debug
            Launch in debug mode (F12)
  ```

## Website

- `index.html` is the landing page and served at `ferrishot.com`. You can just open this file in the browser.
